Part 1:
Adam Curtis, in his customary style presents a view of what if felt like to
live in russia during the fall of communism, and democracy during the years of
1985 - 1999. The documentary is called TraumaZone.

A clip from 1985 in Warsaw is shown from the miss poland 1985 where an angry
music teacher is conducting the contenstants to sing some coca-cola /miss
poland hybrid song.

Clips of family life in russia follow, candid conversations regarding dreams
and family.

A sharp cut to combat, "13,000 russians have died in Afganistan, what for?", A
young dead russian lies in the road

A collective farm on the banks of the Voronezh river of the is shown, women
dressed in red shirts and white headscarfs are shown farming by hand, hundreds
of crows line the bank. 

Moscow police are shown training with simulated gunshot sounds due to a lack of
ammunition.

A main cause of fires in russia was exploding TV sets, footage from a factory
has a man testing televisions by hitting them with a hammer.

A women in court is being read a list of her thefts by the judge, amounting to
Â£38, the list includes clothes and razor blades.

Thousands of bureaucrats are shown in a huge hall in the Kremlin in 1985,
triumphantly singing wearing the arrival of the new leader. Gorbachev came to
power and immediately recieved reports that the communist system was falling
apart, industries were failing and the buraucrats could not be trusted.

The vorukuta coal mines has been built by political prisoners in the artic
circle 60 years ago and were begining to collapse, the workers behan to show
their discontent by demanding free elections. Women are found working in the
the factories.

Footage from Chernobyl nuclear power plant is shown, with the control room in
all its glory and the workers wearing the characteristic chef outfits.

In volograd, formerly stalingrad, new army recruits are being initated into the
army, on busses they board and wave goodbye to the women.

On the border of Poland and Belarus a man is shown being forcable removed from
his home to go to the mental hospital.

gorbachev still believed in the communism but believed radial change was
required.

In 1986 Gorbachev went to Togliatti and announced a radical reform of communism
and called it perestroika.

This reform would give new power to managers of industy and place the future of
communism in their hands, no longer was communism controlled by the powers that
be in Moscow.

We cut back to the women who stole the clothes, she argues her case in an empty
court room to three judges.

A russian man describes life, "there is absolutelynothing to do but drink", we
go to each town until we find vodka.

Managers running the plants became corrupt and began looting their own
factories, and giving cars to their gangster friends.

We then cut to Afaganistan, from the point of view of the muhijedian fighters
against the russians.

April 1986 Chernobyl exploded. The authorities in moscow tried to hide what had
happened, no evacuation was conducted until two days.

a common theme appears to be the collective singing...

By 1987 it was clear that prestorika wasn't working, so much was being stolen
from the factories, that shortages began in shops

Gorbachev decided then for the first time to introduce a type of capitalism
co-operative, individials could engage in capitalism by setting up co-operative
and could now sell things for a profit.

6 months later, an agry working class women in a co-operative shop is
complaining about the expensive prices of trousers

In chernobyl, scientists protected by sellotape enter the reactor with a
minature tank to find out what happened, they found that the core had
completely disapearred. Melted into a heap at the bottom of the reactor
building, a sarcophagus was built to contain it.

Gangesters were killing each other on the floor of the factory line to obtain
cars.

Boris Berezovsky, trained in economic planning and game theory offered to help
the managers, the looting would be explained via scientific principles.

Boris took thouthands of cars and distribute them across russia, allowing him
to become the second oligarch.

A catwalk is shown in moscow in 1989

In Tslibi, Georgia preskorika had given power to the sub states of the CCCP to
gain strength, at a nationailist rally the church Patriach came out to say that
there would possibly be violence if people stayed as the russian army would
interviene, no one moved.  russian troops attacked the demonstration, some
extremely blurred footge is shown The attack shocked the soviet union

Boris Yeltsin has once been Gorbachev's ally but now believed that prestorakia
had failed, shops became increasingly empty, and the iron curtain was on the
verge of collapse.

In armenia soviet troops were being attacked.

Many died in the attack in Tslibi due to gas, a funeral is shown.


